Let's see.
When did you hear that Jack Williams was the new
president? How did you hear? I heard in 1971.
Do you remember a moment or a conversation? Mr.
Heaton told me. I think that at that time they had
the...
The executive committee preceded the APC. The
executive committee at that time was made up of the
president of the university and all the deans and
the vice presidents. Although Mr. Heaton was not
a, well he would have been a dean at that time. Mr.
Heaton was always on all of the major committees at
the university, even when he was a director. And I
believe that he had, there had been a, there had
been a call meeting, was, General Ludeke was
acting president, if I'm not mistaken, at that
time. And I believe there had been a call meeting,
and I assume that he got his information from the
executive committee and told us that Dr. Williams
would be named president of the university. Do you
remember your first encounter or first meeting?
Well, I knew who Dr. Williams was because of his
assignment at the Coordinating Board. I believe
he was the first commissioner of the Coordinating
Board. See, I did a lot of work with the
Coordinating Board in doing all the reports for
the university, the student academic reports and
things like that, although I didn't work with Dr.
Williams, but I knew a lot of the staff over there
and I knew who he was. And so I was... So I was
acquainted with him. I didn't know anything about
his style or anything like that at all. As you
arrived, as he arrived I mean, do you remember any
major changes or anything? How did he enter A&M?
What was his style?
It seems to me that there were a lot of changes made
in the committee structures that I recall that
took place fairly quickly after he came in and out.
Certainly he had his blessings. I don't know if he
was the architect, so to speak, of it, but that was
the time that the ABC came into being, I believe. Is
that correct? Yeah, I think so. I think that's
when, and I know Dr. Calhoun and Dr. Minerty had a
lot of input on that.
Dr. Williams,
I felt, didn't, it didn't seem to me, it maybe was
because of the relationship that Mr. Rudder had
with a lot of us who'd been here a long time, It
seemed to me that it took us a while to get to know Dr.
Williams. After we got to know him, we felt more
comfortable. And it may have been because of the
assignment that he had and what he was trying to do.
The university, Dr. General Ludeke, of course,
was acting president at that time, but it could be
that A lot of things were being helped on the
burner, so to speak, until they got in a full-time
president. And when he got here, he might have had
his plates loaded, and he was not as accessible as
maybe we thought he should be. But that later
changed. And then I got to know him fairly well
because of our graduation ceremonies and being on
the stage with him and that sort of thing. Describe
his manner at graduation. Oh, very elated with the
function. He loved it. He was very cordial to the
students. You could tell that he felt it was a
wonderful ceremony. And I think, of course,
anybody that comes to A&M Commencement, most
schools that they've been to, don't have what this
institution offers here. And most presidents or
deans that are at other schools and come down here
and see what we do are extremely impressed with it.
And I think he loved every moment of it. I never
heard him say that he disliked any aspect of it.
There were certain things that he would have done
his particular way and that sort of thing. And
that's understandable. And we did it. As I said
earlier, I think we're where we are today
because of his administration. Now, he selects
Calhoun as his chief academic officer not long
after he got here. Describe Calhoun, the
administrator, from your point of view as the
registrar.
Well, I thought at first, that Dr. Calhoun might
look on us as a necessary evil kind, so to speak. And
that probably had a lot to do with all the programs
that he had interest in and that sort of thing.
Gee, I always thought our salvation in that
operation down there was Haskell and Rowe.
Because, as you know, we became more or less
responsible, directly responsible for you, and I
think you always understood our... You have to
understand when you ask a question like that, I
have to look and see what kind of attention were we
getting. Dr. Calhoun, as I say, he... And I
understand that from his background, from his
education. I mean, you know, research,
teaching...
all the the curriculum the academic programs and
things like that was certainly most important to
him he knew that we had to have the function of what
we did over there so it was wise on his part i think to
have someone like you that understood what what we
were all about and gave us the support so but Dr.
Calhoun did a wonderful job. I mean, he did a
superior job in leading the school and that sort of
thing. You know, when you get close to
administrators and whatnot, you can't help but
compare. And so that's, you know, I'm not trying to
say anything negative about him because he and I
got along.
And Dr. Rinerdi and I got along. But it just, you
feel like when someone is aware and is tuned in to
what you're doing, then you have to make a
comparison between former administrators. And
not that it's negative, it wasn't negative for any
of them. I think John did a good job. One of the
practices I think I remember throughout all these
years was a, session between every graduating
senior in the last semester and a representative
of the registrar looking at their transcript to be
sure that, where did that begin? Do you know?
Before I answer that, let me say one thing about
John Calhoun. Oh, okay. Please do. John Calhoun
implemented the Texas A&M that was the finest,
greatest, working committee that that campus had
ever seen, and that was called the Academic
Operations Committee. He put that in. The
Academic Operations Committee, if you remember,
was made up of all of the assistant or associate
deans and the registrar or admissions people. And
it brought us together like nothing before had
ever done. And we could sit there and talk about our
problems and our plans And it just made our work,
everybody knew what the other person was doing,
what to expect, what we were going to do, and that
sort of thing. I always felt that that was just a
tremendous decision. I don't know if he was under
his administration. I don't know if it was his idea
or whose idea it was that he got done. It's still
there. It's still working. And people today tell
me that it's still one of the best committees out
there. I always thought it was the people at the
real working level where you could throw theory
out the door. Here it was down at the grassroots.
And they worked with students, and that's what
this was all about. Every one of them had students.
We had the students to deal with and their records.
And a prime example of that was when we then took a
large number of those people that were on that
committee when I implemented this touchstone
registration system and this total automated
record system that we finally got in. I had those
people on my committee. It's a working committee.
John Calhoun, I give him credit for that. I'm
sorry. I was going to digress a second. The
conference that You're absolutely
correct.
Every student
that was a candidate for a degree, you came in and
you filed for a degree, you filed a degree
application form in your last semester to
graduate. And a record was checked. and uh if you
had and then each student was sent a letter and in
that letter it said you're clear or you have
problems so if you had problems you had to excuse me
uh in the earlier days uh whether you had problems
didn't have problems you had to go in and have that
conference you had to go in and sit down and talk to
an assistant registrar that was in charge of
graduation and it was just a counseling session
where the office went over your your record and you
were clear that was it you were out if you had
difficulties such as substitutions and all that
kind of stuff then you were directed to go over to
the dean's office and get these substitutions
approved and that sort of thing short on grade
points it was a final check the problem i always had
with that it was a little bit late you know why
should a student be given a paper or a letter uh two
months before he was graduating and if he couldn't
go register for a course which he couldn't that
late then what does he do he's here for another
semester so that was another thing that we worked
on to try to get that out early in the student's
career and with these academic advisors i talked
to you about a while ago and after we got all this
automation see every semester when those grades
are applied By terminal now, that academic
faculty or that faculty member can sit there, call
up John Doe's record, see right where it is, tell
him what the deficiencies are, what his extra
hours are, whatever. So changes can be made way
prior to the last semester. And surely there must
be some good anecdotes from those conversations
with those students who thought they were going to
graduate.
Well, not having done any of that myself, that was
one thing that I never did do up there, although we
had people doing it.
I'm kind of lost at that, Haskell. All right, was it
your direct responsibility then to see to it that
All the correct diplomas were here for the people.
That's correct. As you know, for many, many, many,
many years, up until, well, they were doing it in
1998. When I did my last commencement, they were
doing it in May of 88. It's not done today. Oh,
really?
Uh-huh. The diplomas are up there. Uh-huh. But
there are students that are walking across the
stage who may or may not have fallen by for
graduation. Prior to 1988, nobody crossed that
stage unless they were certified and all the hot
wax or whatever were put on their diploma and got
the real diploma. Describe the routine you all
went through to get all those diplomas in the right
order So they could be handed out. Okay. Well,
again, the student applied for a degree in the
semester in which they were to finish. And so we had
a list going. And this was done by colleges and done
by, broken down by department and by degree. And
the diplomas were ordered. You also had to file,
pay a diploma fee and order your diploma. All the
diplomas were ordered. There was a cutoff date.
For example, in the fall semester, the cutoff date
would be around the 15th of October. You had from
September the 1st or now August the 30th or
whatever up to September, October the 15th to
order your diploma. Everybody's diplomas were
ordered who applied for them. And the diploma
company would print them and get them into us. So we
had them all there prior to, you know, a month or so
before graduation. And we'd go ahead, and at the
same time, we were building a program, a
commencement program. And there would always be a
lot of students that knew they weren't going to
graduate, so they'd come in and tell you, hey, I'm
not going to make it. Their name would be taken off
the list. So we had a program built as early as
November the 1st. And we just kept that as our
master list. And then on that magic cutoff day,
which was Thursday at 5 o'clock prior to the
ceremony on Friday,
well, that would be it. And we posted a master list
in the office, and all the people who were still
candidates, come in and they blew. They had a red
dot by their name. They were clear. If it didn't
have a red dot by their name, then they had a
problem. And they had to file a clock on Thursday
and cleared it up. And after that, then, we went
down to the A&M Printing Center that night, and by
about midnight, we had our commencement program
finished. While we were down there having the
programs completed, Don Carter and his group
would be over in the office with a duplicate list of
the commencement program, stacking the diplomas
in the order in which they would be given out. And
they were going to put on those large racks that
you've seen there on the stage. And on the outside
of each tube was a name. That's right. And as you
know, we have a caller. And of course, those
diplomas are stacked in reverse order, such that
you come out at the top and you're correct. And
since we graduate by colleges, then they all have
to be done, then they're alphabetical within
degree. All the bachelor of science degrees will
be, I mean all the master of science degrees will be
here, but if you're getting a bachelor of science
in economics, then they're alphabetical within
economics, and then following that might be
physics, and then they're alphabetical within
that. The key to the man standing at the diploma
rack is the collar. He's got to be sure that when he
calls that name, the diploma there matches. It's
quite an ordeal to get that done properly. Did any
of them ever get spilled on stage? No, I don't think
we ever had an accident like that. We have had a time
or two where there would not be a diploma for a
person. And we kept a box down by the side of the rack
It had nothing but the empty white tube. And, of
course, we'd just pick it up, hand it to the
president, and the audience never knew what
happened. Now, the recipient knew what happened,
and they were kind of hot when they got out in the
audience and opened up and found that they had
nothing inside. I mean, they usually were back up
at the stage asking questions after the ceremony.
More often than not, what was the situation for
those that got a blank?
Oh, well, it could be two or three things. One, it
could be that the student didn't qualify. He or
she, we look on the master list, and they didn't
have a red dot, and they were short grade points, or
they hadn't completed this particular course or
whatever. It could be that we might have made a
mistake. As much as you check those things and
check those things, sometimes they'll get by. And
for whatever those reasons were, there just
wasn't one there.
I think those were the two categories. Do you
remember any situations where the wrong tube went
to the wrong person? Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Yes, I can
recall doing that. And that simply came because
you might make a mistake yourself. You'd look
down, and you'd hear a name, and you might just pick
the wrong tube. You want to pick the one next to it
up. And in my case, the years that I did that, as soon
as I handed it to the president, I knew it was wrong.
But instead of taking it back from him, the next guy
would get a blank tube, and we'd be back on track
then after that. Now, normally you and Don Carter,
in the years that I was familiar, you all worked
that. He pulled it out and handed it to you? That's
correct. That's correct. And then I did that until
I became executive director. And then after that,
Don did it all with the business. Yes, I did that
from Mr. Perriman was doing it for a while. And then
I guess I started doing that in 1969. And I did it
until 86. When you graduated, was it? Did you get
your diploma in a tube? Exactly the same, sir. The
president was there, handed the diploma to me, and
it was a real joy. As far as I know, we've done that. I
don't know when, which would be an interesting
question to find an answer to. How long have they
been doing that? Or did they do that? Because I
agree with you, there are not many institutions
today that still truly hand out diplomas. There
are not many institutions where almost every
student attends. We have a high percentage of
attendance. And therefore, there is given to that
student and his or her family a very warm feeling
about the last event. Do you remember any
last-minute crises relating to commencements?
Well, we'd have the usual one. You can imagine the
disappointment.
I don't think I'm talking to you, maybe not
answering your question, but the big
disappointment would be because
former students of Texas A&M University don't
think that the university ever makes mistakes or
that they should make mistakes. I mean, I've had
them call me on the phone and say, you guys don't
make mistakes. We don't make, Aggies don't make
mistakes. Of course, it would be a great letdown
when a kid, we wouldn't have a diploma for him or
he'd open his empty tooth. And you'd have families
that would come up, but they would always be, after
they understood what the situation was, hey,
we're going to take care of you. Many times on
Saturday morning, we'd take them back over to the
office and we found what the problem was and
everything was solved at that time. But you never
had a crisis where the diplomas didn't get here on
time, where the program didn't get printed? The
crisis I remember, no, to answer your question,
no, about the diplomas. I don't recall that in my
area at all. The big crisis that we were up against
at one time had to do with the printing of the
program. We had been down there all night, as I told
you. Well, actually, we finished it at about
midnight. We got back to the office, and one of the
people that was helping just happened to be
thumbing through the program, and we were
awarding a posthumous degree that year. And as you
recall, we always had an asterisk by the name, and
then the footnote, posthumous, posthumously
awarded, posthumously, I think is what it said.
The word posthumously was misspelled. We have
printed some 7, 8, 10,000 of these programs. We did
nothing. We called back down to go back by daylight
the next morning or by 8 or 9 o'clock the next
morning. We had a correct set, properly spelled
posthumously. So that kind of put us in a bind. It
was a pressure deal, obviously, all the time,
because it was a pressure on the faculty. Because
the students were there, and they were
particularly students who had difficulties.
They were there bugging them and trying to get the
professor to make a grade change, or let me write an
extra paper. And they were working right up to this
5 o'clock. One story that I'll never forget, and
this involves your former department head of
history, Dr. Nance. I will not mention the
student's name because I don't think maybe I
should. The student here was a very prominent
former student and a prominent person in the
state, son of this man.
The interesting thing about this, I happened to be
having lunch with Harry Green a week prior to the
deadline for graduation. And this young man came
by, and Harry introduced him to me. And he said, oh,
I need to talk to you, Mr. Lacey. I need to know just
exactly what to do to make certain that my
graduation is OK. So I went through the rules with
him. 5 o'clock comes on Thursday, and he hasn't
cleared. because he has an elf in a history course.
Well, we go on down to the printing center, and
about 9 o'clock that night, I get a call from Dr.
Williams. Hold up. We're going to do something.
And we've got to find Dr. Nance. Well, you knowing
Dr. Nance and his temperament, that kind of thing
didn't sit well with him at all. But anyway, about
midnight, They located Dr. Nance, and he was to
retest this young man. Well, the next problem was
they couldn't find the young man. So they finally
found him about 3 o'clock in the morning up at the
Dixie Chicken, and he was slightly on his way to a
neighboration. But the test was given, and I'm
still holding up. I'm still holding up on the
printing. So I go on from the printing center about
5 in the morning to the office. It's 6 o'clock.
Somebody's knocking on the back doors of the
Cokeville. And I open the door, and here's Milton
Nance in a roar, highly upset. You know how red he'd
get when he got angry. And he went through his
philosophy about all this stuff, and I don't think
he'd repeat that. But he had given an exam, and he
And we were able to- He had a grade change. He had a
grade change, and we were able to get his name in the
program. And Dr. Williams, I also remember that. I
mean, he said, look, I've done a lot of things,
talking to this particular gentleman, I've done a
lot of things, but this is the limit. Don't ask me
anymore. I suspect you recall that circumstance.
Let's see, commencement speakers, do you have any
favorites that you remember? Oh, Len Ashby. I
thought you had no doubt about it. Absolutely. You
know, we had him here at least twice, maybe three
times. Oh, I just remember I knew all about one. I
believe he's been here twice. I believe he's been
here twice, yes. I remember him with Dr. Williams
particularly. Yes, yes. You know, he was a
University of Texas graduate. He got a tremendous
amount of respect for Texas A&M because of Jack
Williams. He really introduced him here, and he's
been quite complimentary.
Do you remember any prima donnas who kind of acted
uppity as commencement speakers? Oh, Dr.
DeBakey. That would have been my choice too. Not
any question about it. That he was doing us a favor
by being here. Totally, totally. And acted as
though he didn't enjoy him any more. One I had
great, I felt great honor in working with was Leon
Jaworski. You know, I remember when he was here,
but when was that? It was in the Williams years.
Late 70s? No, it may have been under Jarvis. I don't
remember him as a speaker. I just remember him as a
kind, thoughtful man who would not accept the fee.
And I told him that we would then take his fee and
make a scholarship out of it. And he then wrote a
check equaling that fee to add to it. And I thought
all the things that I've read about him, I... Let's
see, do you remember... On the stage, do you
remember any student doing anything, any prank or
anything goofy on the stage? Oh, yes. The one that
comes to mind immediately is the student that
comes up to the, if you recall, that was an elevated
stage and we had rather inclined steps going up to
it. And so the student comes up to the bottom of the
steps And he's on crutches and just hardly can walk
on crutches. So a couple of our four workers there
help him get up the steps and get him onto the stuff,
get up the steps and onto the stage. And he wobbles
out across the stage and just barely could get to
the president. Just stuck his hand out very
limber, very slowly. as though he were about to
pass out at that moment, and the president handed
him his diploma, shook his hand, and he threw down
the crutches and jumped up and let out a whoop and
took off running across the stage and left the
crutches on the stage. That one I remember very
well. All right, now the diploma presentation I
remember most is the last one while I was employed
here. The last commencement I attended was on
Saturday morning in May of 1980. And this was a
young woman getting a degree in biomedical
sciences. And do you remember who I'm thinking
about? I think you're talking, she was in the cadet
corps. That's right. Describe, if you will, your
recollection of what happened. All right, we're
talking about Melanie Zingrass. That's right.
Melanie Zingroup was a cadet. And
when she walked up on the stage, Dr. Miller was
president at that time. And of course, her name was
called. Our commencement speaker had been
Lieutenant Governor William P. Hobby. That I did
not recall. Yes. All right. I think maybe that we
need to possibly indicate that there were
difficulties between Ms. Ingraf and the
administration. Yes. And I recall it had to do with
the